# Formal languages practice task

Given regular expression in reverse polish notation and a character, outputs length of the greatest substring over all words in alphabet generated by the expression.

## Installation:

> git clone https://github.com/limerentt/formal_practice.git

> mkdir build

> cd build

> cmake ..

> make

## How it works:

We proceed parsing regular expression by parts with stack starting from left counting lengths of three parameters for each specific expression: greatest prefix/postfix/substring consisting only of given character over all words in alphabet generated by this expression. Also each expression contains the following _boolean_ flags: 
* _full_word_x_ - if it has a word consisting only of wanted character, 
* _is_eps_ - if it generates only epsilon-word, 
* _inf_captured_ - if it generates an infinite substring of wanted character.

Regular expression is considered **incorrect** if meeting an operation sign stack doesn't contain enough arguments to perform it or if by the end of the program stack contains more than one element(not enough operations given).

The answer is **infinite** if at some step we meet an asterisk performing on expression with flag _full_word_x_.

If we the following signs performing on regular expressions _a_ and _b_, then we get the following parameters on resulting expression _c_: 
* concatenation sign: 
  > prefix(_c_) = prefix(_a_), 
  
  > postfix(_c_) = postfix(_b_), 

  > substring(_c_) = max(substring(_a_), substring(_b_), postfix(_a_) + prefix(_b_));

* plus: 
  > prefix(_c_) = max(prefix(_a_), prefix(_b_)), 
  
  > postfix(_c_) = max(postfix(_a_), postfix(_b_)), 
  
  > substring(_c_) = max(substring(_a_), substring(_b_)).

Asterisk preserves prefix of _a_ and postfix of _b_, substring can change to prefix(_a_) + postfix(_b_), we take maximum of these two if INF is not reached.

The answer is substring of expression in the very end.

Asymptotic is linear wrt length of regular expression in polish notation since every new symbol and operation is processed in _O(1)_ time.

## Testing:

> cd cmake-build-debug

* Input/output from/to terminal:  
  > ./main_test
  
* Googletests with coverage:
  > ./unit_tests
  
  
### Pleasant using!
